hi everyone and welcome to the
ipfs core implementations weekly sync
for monday the 7th of november
2020. i am making brain i will be your
host we are going to play the game of
the high priority initiatives other
initiatives q a parking lot all the
usual stuff it's gonna be amazing
uh welcome back hannah and alex to the
team
uh we're looking forward to all the
awesomeness that you're gonna bring
um cool so let's get started the first
thing
on the agenda as ever is uh well a note
taker
adeem sorry you're in the top left of my
screen um congratulations but also
upcoming and shift releases so who can
tell us about the
go ipfs 0.8 rc
so uh yeah things are
things are hopefully going to be good to
go today
is the hope uh where we got a couple
last things to merge in uh
in pinning services which we'll get to
in a minute
um but everything else for rc1 is good
to go
there'll be a few things that make it in
between rc1 and the final but
um should be enough to get people uh
playing around with things and and
making sure that it's it's working for
them
comes with you know lots of lots of
various fixes and such
so so keep on the lookout
rad uh pinning services is next
um i can give something yeah go ahead if
you okay
so we had some discussions last week
about
apis a bit so we revisited some of it
and changed it we namely we removed the
request id
from inputs and outputs and turned it
into an
implementation detail between co-ipfs
and pinning service
we might add it in the future or do
something else but it seems like
we could leave it out because we don't
need it
so we did
mock service uh implementation just
got a cli interface so you can like spin
it up
quickly and easily without having to use
a node
uh it got identification support now too
and i've updated http client uh
pull request that we had in place to
take into account all the changes that
we made to the api and stuff
uh i still need to do some integration
testing
into integrate testing into this
uh and i don't know what the last item
is
we have a policy to automatically pin uh
mfs to
the remote pinning services but we've
still got um a few details to work out
there so that's not going to be an rc1
uh there was also a late entry to the
upcoming releases of jess
uh peter p 0.30
can you give us a little rundown of that
uh
yes so in the 0.30 we are basically
almost done for the release we are just
finishing some stuff with the types uh i
will basically need to
review for the car
pr and once there is good to go i think
we'll be able to ship it
awesome
local pinning
it's uh it's good to go good to go we
gotta
um yeah basically just have to
merge the fs repost stuff and do a
release of it
and then then we are all set
amazing fs fs repo changes to make this
less miserable
coming soon to a binary near you
uh i guess second removal is next i
don't know jacob if i got this right but
all of the uh um sort of public
infrastructure
like bootstrap nodes dht boosters
are set i was removed from all of them
uh nobody has freaked out as of yet
so we're just gonna keep not having them
there
uh and we're planning on turning sec-io
off
uh on the preload nodes which are the
only ones that still have any second
support
early next year i'm not sure how early
but
yeah yeah i think it was tentatively
january um but we'll resist that early
next year
and then i think we should be good to
have we deleted the instances yet
uh i don't know i can check with michael
but i know they're not on
because i just checked the dashboards
all right yeah
all pinging the issue because we we
haven't heard any screaming so we can
just
terminate those yeah if your friends are
using
older versions of js ipfs tell them to
upgrade
it's time
maybe that's why we can't hear the
screamings because they can't connect to
the network anymore
oh well some of these tricky guys have
been i think just keeping their nodes on
and they're just still they're still
present in the dht because they've just
never turned their
nodes off so it doesn't matter that
nobody
all the bootstrappers are off there are
no prizes for up time here
all right next up is uh js improves
discoverability and connectivity
uh there is no update um
bi-directional streaming and streaming
errors in the browser please
review my pr uh this is now like
it's been open for two weeks now and the
only comment i got from lydol
about an hour ago which is like hey
maybe we should pump this to next year
which is you know disappointing um
i mean practical sure like the pragmatic
approach maybe but also
uh it would be really nice if uh i mean
alex hannah nadine
because if we like we want to implement
this and go
so i would really like some input from
you guys um on
what guys and girls sorry uh on what
i've done and if it's good or if it's
bad
i mean it's probably bad but if it's
not too bad it would be really helpful
please do please do look at my pr
uh javascript dht uh still um
doing some work on the uh night manager
uh i've got some feedback
which is great i need to implement uh
the feedback and just briefly bring it
up to date on how it
interacts with all the changes in uh
liberty to p
0.30
cool that is the end of the high
priority initiatives moving on to the
other initiatives
uh no update on firelight progress and
web ui
uh typescript integration what's going
on
um i have some updates there
if i find my notes
oh yeah so bunch of back and forth only
p2p
interfaces uh package
or library uh washcloth was doing most
of the changes
i tried to help with some stuff
but yeah i guess that's the only thing
on my end
yeah so as directly said the liberty
interfaces pr
with the type devs and also textual
interfaces for
the transport and stream maxer and also
crypto
should be now ready to go thanks to
further reviews to iraqi and google
i think we finally got to a
good result on it and the lipid speed
car
pr which is the main blocker now for
elliptic
0.30 needs reviews so
iraq and luke if you could check it out
it would be great
i already tested it with the lockstar
one of
our projects uh upstream projects that
uses typescript
and the build it's good so i think
uh it will not take that long to
get it approved and that's it
i guess i did some work on a pizza up as
well
i forgot to mention i hugo did the
review and i had to address some of the
stuff
i don't remember where it said now i
think maybe i have to do more changes
before it can
go in
cool uh badger 2 support no
update not reversal
no update
uh unix fsv 1.5 and guy pfs
uh the last comment on there well
is mine but prior to that uh the
contributor who's trying to
claim the bounty on this and do the work
do the work and then clean the bounty is
asking
for a bit of help uh with go and how he
can
uh add a field to the
uh object that he's passing around if
someone with a bit of
ghostmarks could just drop a reply in
there that would probably unblock him
and help
help him get that moving along please
thank you
next up is go ipfs gc improvements
yeah design has been made available to a
limited audience waiting for some focus
feedback before we
open it up to to a larger audience
unless we think that's appropriate at
this point just wanted to get the sort
of
uh initial sanity check on on that
before we have everybody
jump in um so that's
that'll be that'll probably take at
least a few days to get some
feedback on um and then we'll go from
there
uh cool that's it
for the uh uh other initiatives uh
designer room proposals
has anybody got anything they'd like to
propose for a design review
stick it in the notes if you do
blockers and asks
questions there's a question from hannah
uh
what uh would love information what card
four point five is oops unix
yes so it's adding metadata so uh
modification times
uh and modes fundamentally
but within the existing dad protobuf
kind of like set up and no ipld
unix fsb2 madness no exactly that's why
it's 1.5 and not v2
yeah for sure i still might be able to
jump in and
try to unblock that person because i
know unix fs
probably well enough to vaguely help
them or at least
take a shot at it cool i mean i think
they just need some help
literally write and go that's all just
the language
um
are we ready to remove the do we want to
leave the sec io
thing on here until uh like for next
time
until we're until the preload nodes have
them off
or are we calling this one done let's
just take it off
cool
any other questions
amazing anything for the parking lot
anything that doesn't fit into the other
categories
we are burning through this meeting this
is amazing
we're gonna have so much time back at
the end of it oh hannah
hand up i have a i have a random like
status question which is did we ever
uh finish off the like
providing the the new providing system
that was like basically
in progress when i left like like they
would take providing out a bit swap or
is that still
uh so so
no but since we've gone
through that um we've
realized we need to take sort of like a
different approach to how we
do the providing because there's just
too much stuff
and so uh yeah patara and i've been
thinking about how we want to do this
it's probably going to tie into some of
this like hey we're refactoring out some
of the guts around
the dag service and we're providing and
finding the peers are for things and so
i i think
we're going to use some we're going to
use some of the opportunities around
importing go ipld prime to like
see how we can do this better
got it cool all right we can definitely
discuss
the context of this
nice any final items for the parking lot
okay i think we're done this is amazing
thank you all for coming uh please do
fill in your weekly updates um because
it's very useful to read them
uh thanks a lot this has been the uh
iverson confrontations weekly sync for
monday the 7th of december we all get 12
minutes back
amazing it's a christmas miracle
see you next week bye